So let's get going.
Let's actually go on to our little
exercise to really set in the value that
Rust is trying to bring to you.
And so today we're gonna
do a small little program.
We're gonna call it practice.
That's the function we're gonna do.
And it's gonna take in numbers
that is a vec of usize.
So a list of unsigned system architecture
with numbers and an index, usize, and
you're gonna return one of the following.
So it's an iteration on the previous
thing we just got done writing,
if the value exists in the numbers,
return it and multiply it by 5.
If there is no value,
return the index and multiply by 5.
So we're gonna take a vector,
we're gonna pass in an index,
then we're gonna grab that value
out of the vector at that index,
multiply it by 5, or
multiply the index by 5.
So, I will kinda help you.
It says first do it in TypeScript,
so let's do it in TypeScript first,
because that's where we're gonna do it.
It's better to do it in TypeScript.
So let's jump over here,
let's go to TypeScript, and
we can just update practice to be
something that looks like this.
It's gonna be a numbers array, right?
Cuz we don't have vectors, we have that,
so I'm gonna call it nums,
it just feels better that way.
And we're gonna return out a number,
fantastic.
And then also,
we need to be able to take in the index
in which we're gonna be indexing at.
So how do we do this in TypeScript land?
Well, we'd have to be
a little bit careful.
We're gonna have to do something,
maybe it looks something like this.
We're gonna have to go
return (nums [index] ??
index)5 right, does that look about right?
Seems about correct.
And so, there we go, we have successfully
done it in TypeScript, fantastic.
We all know TypeScript, so
this is very familiar and wonderful and
just feel good about yourself.
I don't think this is how I did it in
the preview, which hurts my emotions.
So if I go down here, what did I do it as?
Yeah, I did something like this.
You don't wanna do that.
You could also do it like this,
or the way I just did it,
which probably seems a little bit nicer.
So there you go.
We did the same thing.
So if I pass in this,
I should get four times five,
I should get 20 out if
we were to execute this.
So pretty straightforward code,
nothing fantastic going on.
Let's do the same thing, but in Rust.
So let's take our vector knowledge,
let's take our option knowledge and
let's make it happen.
So jump back here,
jump over to your Rust file.
Instead of being an option of usize,
let's have it as a Vec of usize.
Instead of returning an option of
usize let's just have it as usize.
So there we go.
And then lastly,
we need to take in an index.
So make sure your index is,
of course, a usize.
There we go.
So now we just
gotta return this thing out.
So what can we do?
Well, we can return num.get(index).
Now remember, what does get return as?
Can someone say the type out loud?
>> Option?
>> Option of?
>> The thing [LAUGH] that's underlying it.
>> Yes, the type that's in the vector,
option T.
Option, the type in the vector,
option of usize.
You can see that right here,
it tells you all about it.
That definition looks extremely
complicated, but don't worry,
that's what's happening.
So that means we can now unwrap it or
we can use our previous stuff.
Now notice, we're combining our operations
here, we're going into a vector.
We're using those options, and
we're doing the right things here.
So now I can unwrap or index.
But what's going on here?
We got to do this really quickly,
times 5, and we have this problem here.
So if you wrote the same code I did,
which is vector dot get index, unwrap or
index, what does this mean?
Expected reference to usize found usize.
Let's walk through this problem,
what could that mean?
What does get return?
Let's look at it.
Gosh, I can't even see my mouse.
4K, caught in 4K here.
Notice what it says.
It's an option of
reference to what's inside.
It's not the item itself, it's
a reference to what's inside the vector.
That means if we were to do something
like this, let num = num get index off.
We can't use that,
we'll just call unwrap for now.
Look at what we get.
We get a reference to the thing
that's in the vector,
not the thing that's in the vector,
a reference to it.
So that's very, very important.
Which means unwrap or has to do what?
It has to match the type
that's coming out.
So the or has to be the same.
So we can just go like this,
reference to index.
Boom, it's the same type now.
We were trying to unwrap or
with a different type.
We have to make it the same type.
Kind of a fun little experiment there.
You kinda can see a little bit
more about how these things work.
You gotta think in types.
Thinking in types really helps you kind
of have a good mental pathway when you're
building a program.
So a little bit different
maybe than you're used to,
especially if you're only
doing TypeScript ever.
An ampersand sign should only
ever be used in IF conditions.
This is ridiculous that you're
using it somewhere else.
Well, technically, a Boolean expression
would be a better way to say that, but
you get the idea.
All right, we did the Rust version.
Does that all make sense?
Do you feel a little
bit better about that?
Yes, we're trying to keep the types
the same when you unwrap.
All right, so we already, yeah.
So anyways, this is Rust's take on the
billion dollar mistake that is known as
null or undefined.
Null really is the billion-dollar mistake,
that's what they call it.
I would argue that undefined's potentially
even more than a billion-dollar mistake,
undefined has been just a nightmare.
I think one of the hardest parts about
undefined is if you ask any person,
say, what's the difference
between null and undefined,
you get kind of a variety of answers.
The main answer you're gonna get is
null is undefined on purpose and
undefined is undefined on accident or
purpose sometimes, right?
Because why would you have that little
question mark operator on a struct if
it's on purpose?
If it's on purpose,
then say it's on purpose, it's null.
So we don't use it consistently.
It has weird meanings.
It's like a holdback from Java.
I don't know what happened, right,
because if you don't know, Brendan Gregg,
he did actually have to bring it over
because of demands with Java to bring over
null into JavaScript,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
Who knows?
It had to do something with integration.
I forget the exact reason,
but, anyways, here we are,
we now have a completely different
take on the null undefined problem.
And I would argue that this just
leads to easier programming.
You always know when
something might not be there.
And right now you're probably
thinking in your head.
Well, it's not that big of a deal.
We generally know, just wait.